Opened: Friday, 19 August 2022, 12:00 AM
Due: Sunday, 28 August 2022, 11:59 PM

Motivation: The motivation of this assignment is to get an insight into data tokenization and normalization

Problem Statement: The goal of the assignment is to write a tweet tokenizer. The input of the code will be a set of tweets and the output will be the tokens in each tweet. The assignment will proceed in two parts.

Part 1 (Data Preparation): As a first step you will be  given a input dataset to work on.

The guidelines for tweet tokenization are as follows:

1. All punctuations are individual tokens. This includes double-quotes and single quotes also. No need to normalize quotation marks further.

2. Clitics are separated into component words, with the clitic normalized into the original word. Example: I’m -> I am; she’d -> she would; can’t -> can not; etc. Possessive apostrophes are individual tokens. Example: “NLP’s assignment” -> NLP ‘s assignment. If a word-ending apostrophe is possessive, convert it into apostrophe s. Example: “Jones’ golf clubs” -> Jones ‘s golf clubs.

3. Each hashtag is an individual token. Each user reference is an individual token.

4. Each smiley is a separate token.

5. If a word combines multiple words then the correct output should split them. For example, in the tweet “It’s Been Coldd :/ iGuess It’s Better Than Beingg Hot Tho .”, ‘iGuess’ should be tokenized into two tokens, i, and Guess. Another example: “good…That” has three tokens: good, …, and That. Finally “:):):)” are three tokens – :), :), and :).

6. Split hyphenated words apart in the case of adjectives. Keep the hyphen with word #2. “US-based” -> US –based. However, hyphen can also be a list maker in some cases. “US-Japan” should be three tokens: US, -, and Japan.

7. If a word has spaces between them then it is converted to a single token. Example: “R E T W E E T” is one token, RETWEET; “U. S. A.” is one token “U.S.A.”

8. Convert dates into a canonical format. We will use CF:D: as a prefix to denote that this is a canonical date – example, “07/07/13” becomes: CF:D:2013-07-07 in the format year-month-date. Same for “07-07-13”, “7th July 13” and “2013-07-07”. Assume American standard of month/date/year when it is not clear from date expression. Also, “july’13” becomes “CF:D:2013-07”. A year reference of 2013 also becomes “CF:D:2013”. If only a month or a date is mentioned then add question marks. Like just “July” becomes “CF:D:????-07”. Do this even if the year is clear from world knowledge or other context.

9. Convert times into a canonical format using a similar format. Use T instead of a D. For example, “7 PM” becomes: CF:T:1900 “7 PM IST” becomes: CF:T:1900:IST. “IST 5 o’clock” becomes CF:T:0500|1900:IST. “7 PM California time” becomes “CF:T:1900:PST”

10. A URL is a single token.

11. If a sentence ends with a word that legitimately has a full stop (abbreviations, for example), add a final full stop.

Part2: Tokenizer and Normalizer

Write a program that takes as input a list of tweets and outputs tokenization for each tweet.

Input format: The input file will contain a list of tweets, one per line.

Output File Format:

1. Output file containing tokenized tweets should be named as “MIS-No_Output.txt” (without quotes and all small case letters).

2. Each tokenized tweet should be represented in the following format:

a) First line contains the full original tweet as given in input file.

b) the next line should be an integer (n) specifying the number of tokens in the tweet being outputted.

c) Following that, there should be n lines having each token on a new separate line.

d) There should not be any space after the token, the cursor should immediately point to next line or End of File whatever the case be.

 3.The next tokenized tweet should follow the previous tokenized tweet without any separating empty line.

4. If a word occurs multiple times in a tweet, then write a separate token for each occurrence.

5. There should not be any extra line after the last token of last tweet.

A sample example for a tweets would be as below:

woman who missed Air France flight dies a

8

woman

who

missed

Air

France

flight

dies

a

@leighabelle maybe. I doubt it. Lol. Sooooooo...

11

@leighabelle

maybe

.

What to submit?

1. Submit the tokenization by  Sunday, 28th August 2022

2. Submit the code by Sunday,  28th August 2022. Submit your with name as : MISNO_code.py. Write-up of assignment (at most 2 page, 12 pt font-Times New Roman) should describe how you created the tokenizer and normalizer. Any interesting datasets you have referred. Also, any experiments that you may have run in incremental development of your code. Also mention the names of people you discussed the assignment with. The writeup will judged on clarity and innovation as well as experimental results.

 Evaluation Criteria

(1) 10 points are for completing the assignment completely.

(2) 10 points for the writeup

(3) 30 points for performance of your code on any text for all above mention aspects.

 What is allowed? What is not?

1. The assignment is to be done individually.

2. You should use Python for this assignment.

3. You must not discuss this assignment with anyone outside the class. Follow the academic integrity carefully.

4. Please do not search the Web for solutions to the problem.