Assignment No : 2 
Topic :  Create tweet tokenizer and solve it using the nltk library
Mis : 111903033
Subject : Natural Language Processing 

Context:
        here in this Assignment we have to make use of the the tweet tokenizer and also we have to make possible many of the conditions
        and it shoulf be supported by the all lines and it should give proper output according to input 

        Questions to tackle and how you tackled all issues 
        1. All punctuations are individual tokens. This includes double-quotes and single quotes also. No need to normalize quotation marks further.

            so for that i used the tweet_tokenize from the nltk so i get the words for the punctuations and the emojis as the seperate
            elements
        
        2. Removing appostrophies from words
            i used simple if else conditions in order to break the words and find the word and its appostrophies
        
        3. Breaking camel case and using @ and # as the independent entity 
            i created function to break camel case and first i created function which can detect that is word contains camel case 
            or not

        4. Specifying the emojis as the special entity
            so as we in tweet we use new kind of emojis like :) , :/ so we have to treat them as special entity 
        
        5. Split hyphenated words apart in the case of adjectives. Keep the hyphen with word #2. “US-based” -> US –based.
         However, hyphen can also be a list maker in some cases. “US-Japan” should be three tokens: US, -, and Japan.

            It is easy to find the words from hyphoned text we just split the string using string slicing 
        
        6.  A URL is a single token.

            just find the start and then solve it using string comparison 
            
        7. If a sentence ends with a word that legitimately has a full stop (abbreviations, for example), add a final full stop.

        8. @ and # as the independent entity
    
    conclusion:
        here how i used the Created a code which can run like tweet tokenizer
